# No Loot Drops for Torchlight II

This Torchlight 2 mod makes enemies drop only gold, allowing you to focus on clearing while adventuring - leaving the item management and theorycrafting for when you're safely back in town. And why would a dog ever drop a sword or ring...?

Chests have had their item drop rates reduced ten-fold but their quality doubled. You won't find empty chests everywhere though - a shiny pile of gold should drop roughly every time you'd have found a less rare item in the vanilla game!

With random loot still being generated by chests and other sources, this approach allows for the usual excitement of coming across epic gear (and the challenge of making the most out of that), while also promoting more intentional agency and strategy in your theorycrafting because you have to deliberately choose when and how to spend your gold rather than just picking incremental upgrades off of the ground.

## How to install

**Steam workshop version:** if you own the game on Steam, simply open the [Workshop page](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2482564330) and hit the "subscribe" button. Next time you launch the game, enable the mod as normal through the official Mod Launcher.

**Manual install:** Download the latest version of the mod file from [the GitHub release page](https://github.com/tukkek/torchlight2-NoLootDrops/releases) and place it on your Torchlight 2 mod folder. If you're unsure the exact folder location, use the "Open mods folder" button on the official Mod Launcher tool. If needed, check [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e5KeocjLUiA) for step-by-step instructions.

## On balance

Balance has been tested this way, on Normal difficulty:

1. Run the first area of the game multiple times
2. Don't use consumables and ignore containers
3. Pick all monster drops
4. Make a straighforward bee-line to the end of the area
5. Sell all loot and gear once you reach the first town
6. Make note of the final amount of gold owned, deducing the value of the given starting items (~400 gold)
7. Take a median from all runs

The results:
* Vanilla: ~300 gold
* No Loot Drops: ~300 gold

For a number of reasons this isn't as "perfect" as the numbers initially suggest but further playtesting hasn't shown any major issues in balance. Opinions and feedback on this matter from more experienced players are very welcome!

## What is changed?

1. All `TREASURE_MONSTERLOOT_*` Spawn Classes that don't targer a specific unit or specific unit types have been modified to roll directly on the `GOLD_PIECE` table (or their original values for `NONE`) instead of the various other tables (such as `TREASURE`, `CHAMPION_TREASURE`, etc). This is a very simple approach that does not take a couple technicalities under consideration but it seems to be balanced enough while also being maximally compatible with other mods.
2. All of the generic `TREASURE_CHEST_*` and `CHEST_TREASURE_*` Spawn Classes have had their consumable drops removed and, where possible their chance to drop gear roughly reduced by 90%, with Magic Find boosted by 200%. Where outright replacing an entry with `GOLD_PIECE` drops instead was not possible, a new `GOLD_PIECE` entry was added with a weight roughly equivalent to half of the removed odds. Non-generic Spawn Classes (such as Weapon Racks) were left unchanged.

## Possible future changes

1. ~~Consider boosting the amount of gold dropped, using the minimum- and maximum-rolls fields, to make up for having to depend more on expensive vendor purchases~~ (further testing shows this probably isn't necessary).

